[thunder rumbling]
‐ 'It's freezing.'
‐ 'We're getting soaked!'
CLEMONT
'Let's duck in there!'
BONNIE
'Ah! Dedenne, stay still!'
[thunder rumbling]
[door creaks]
[panting]
‐ Whoa.
‐ Man, what a storm.
It came up so suddenly.
I hate thunder. Ah! Ah.
Huh? Huh?
'Let's ask if we can stay here
until it stops raining.'
‐ Guys, the door's open! Yay!
‐ Huh?
Bonnie, you can't
just go in there.
Anybody home? Hello?
Can we stay here
until it stops raining?
[CALLING]
Excuse us.
SERENA
Is anybody here?
♪ I wanna be the very best ♪
♪ Like no one ever was ♪
♪ To catch them all
is my real test ♪
♪ To train them is my cause ♪
♪ Pokémon gotta catch them all ♪
♪ It's you and me ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ I know it's my destiny ♪
♪ Yeah you're
my best friend ♪
♪ In a world we must defend ♪
♪ Pokémon gotta catch them all ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪♪
ASH
"SEEKING SHELTER
FROM THE STORM!"
NARRATOR
As our heroes continue
their journey
to Cyllage City
and Ash's second
Kalos region Gym battle
they find themselves caught
in a heavy thunderstorm.
Is anybody in here?
[CALLING]
‐ Hello?
‐ Sorry to bother you.
It seems totally deserted.
The exterior's
in pretty bad shape
so maybe nobody
lives here anymore.
BONNIE 'Hey, why don't we just
stay here for a while?'
CLEMONT
'I guess so..'
Maybe, but this place
gives me the creeps.
‐ Huh?
‐ Yeah, me too.
But it's better
than getting wet.
[AGREEMENT]
I think it feels creepy
because there's no light.
Hm.. Looks like
it's still working.
Ah..
‐ That's better.
‐ Sure is.
‐ Hey, Clemont, thanks.
‐ Ah..
But..
I didn't turn them on.
‐ So, then..
‐ Who did?
That's kind of weird.
[CONFUSED]
[panting]
Probably,
it must've been the sensors.
‐ Sensors?
‐ Yeah, motion detectors.
That's why the lights
came on automatically.
It may be an old house
but it must be equipped
with the latest technology, huh?
[chuckles]
I see.
[laughing]
‐ Yeah, or maybe..
‐ Huh?
We're inside a haunted house.
[shudders]
Huh? Did I say that?
Uh, let's wait outside
until the rain passes.
Great idea.
[gasps]
What happened?
[grunting]
Guys, the door's locked!
[CONCERNED]
‐ No way!
‐ But it was just wide open.
It must be
the motion detectors
closing and locking
the doors
after they're open
for a short while.
‐ But why are they still locked?
‐ Let me see.
Maybe this is a haunted mansion
that grabs people
and then eats them.
[shudders]
‐ Did I say that?
‐ Wait.
You should never
trust anything
that can't
be explained by science.
This is a huge mansion
and so there has to be
another way to get outta here!
Yup. You're right.
Let's go and find it!
[DETERMINED]
[breathing heavily]
It's a downpour.
And it happens to be
raining down on us!
Yeah, I hate
when that happens.
JESSIE
Look.
There's a good chance it's not
raining inside that huge house.
‐ But what if somebody's there?
‐ Then I'll keep them company.
[chuckles]
We're company too.
[panting]
Open the door!
This home's
creep factor's on ten.
And that's a bad thing?
It'll keep away the riff‐raff
and make this the perfect
Kalos frontline hideaway.
Wait a sec.
I thought we were
getting out of the rain.
Hm. Huh?
Oh! It's an automated window.
In an old house like this?
Meowth's right.
Wait up, Jessie.
Judging by the looks of it
this place
has been abandoned forever.
Longer.
Hm. There must be
a light switch around here.
Oh, thanks
for the light, Meowth.
I didn't do that.
I'd say everything
in this old joint is automated.
‐ This old house?
‐ Huh?
I'm starting to get a bad
feeling about this place.
You and me both, pally.
Let's make sure
we have an out.
Word up.
[grunting]
‐ This thing's locked.
‐ Huh?
[screaming]
It's just a painting.
CLEMONT
'Y‐you're, you're right.
It's a portrait.'
ASH
'Maybe she owns this place?'
Maybe she's not alive
but she's here, anyway
if you know what I mean.
[shudders]
Huh! Did I say that?
Did you hear that?
‐ That sound?
‐ Yeah, loud and clear.
I am so through with this place.
[grunting]
[thud]
Anybody hear that?
It must be an old
grandfather clock
ticking away somewhere
and nothing more.
I'm sure of it.
Sounds to me like
someone's pounding a stake.
‐ How come?
‐ To stop a vampire?
[shudders]
My mouth's got a mind
of its own today.
[screaming]
Ah.
It's just a portrait painting.
Next time, tell me
before I freak out.
Hey, did that woman's eyes
just move?
[screaming]
What is that awful noise?
Like I previously stated
this is an old mansion
so it's really drafty.
The draft sounds
like a whistle
and the whistle sounds
like someone screaming
which is actually
quite common.
You're wrong,
I have no doubt in my mind
that was somebody screaming.
Serena's right.
[SCARED]
This mansion must be haunted
by the spirit of the lady
in the painting.
[shudders]
Ah! There I go again!
We need to get out of here fast.
I thought you were going
to make this our hideout.
I lied.
‐ Huh?
What's that?
ALL
'Ghost!'
Whatever that is
has shining eyes!
Well, I'm not about to stick
around and check out
whatever it is that Sparky
just threw at us.
That was no Poké Ball
and I'm no Pokémon!
But I am!
‐ Another scream..
‐ Ah..
Let's find a way out.
Huh?
[STARTLED]
[shudders]
Huh?
‐ Hey!
‐ Wait!
CLEMONT
'Bonnie!'
Stop!
[panting]
[gasp]
‐ Where's Bonnie?
‐ I don't see her anywhere.
Bonnie! Where'd you go?
[URGENT]
CLEMONT
'Hey!'
JESSIE
Did someone just call us?
MEOWTH
It's probably whatever's
hauntin' this goofy joint.
JAMES
Now, that you mention it
it does look haunted,
doesn't it?
JESSIE
Will you keep
your crazy to yourself?
‐ Hey!
‐ Bonnie!
She has to be around here.
[SCARED]
Huh?
[screaming]
‐ What's wrong with you?
‐ Did you just see something?
I figured it out,
there must be a Psychic
or Ghost‐type Pokémon
in this mansion.
That's gotta be why
those lights turned on
and the doors closed
all by themselves.
So you think
a Pokémon did all of that?
Of course, that certainly would
explain all this weird stuff.
Yeah and maybe that thing we saw
was actually a Pokémon.
A Pokémon?
[INSIGHTED]
I'd guess the doors
and windows wouldn't open up
because that Pokémon
probably doesn't want us
to get out
of the mansion just yet.
‐ Yeah, but why?
‐ I don't know.
Hello, there.
[FRIENDLY]
Hey, what's your name?
'Who are you?'
[CURIOUS]
GROUP
Who's that Pokémon?
It's Espurr!
Are you a ghost?
Please, tell me.
'Do you live here?'
[FOCUSED]
Hm. Oh. Hm.
[ENCOURAGING]
Hm.
Huh? Huh!
[chuckles]
[HAPPY]
[laughing]
Huh?
Oh. Huh!
[EAGER]
[PLAYFUL]
[PROUD]
[EXERTION] / [STRUGGLING]
[WORRIED] / [PSYCHIC MOVE]
[groans]
Huh?
Hey, how did we do that?
Wait a minute. Was that you
who kept us from falling?
[HAPPY]
Wow, thanks!
[GRATEFUL]
Ah..
Were you the one
who turned on all the lights
and then locked the door?
[HAPPY]
'Why'd you do that?'
Huh?
[ENCOURAGING]
What's in here?
[CURIOUS]
Ah..
[laughing]
[PROUD]
[PLAYFUL]
[HAPPY]
[CURIOUS]
Huh?
Okay!
[HAPPY]
You ready?
Ride the Ponyta!
CLEMONT
'Bonnie! Where are you?'
SERENA
Where did you go?
[STARTLED]
Do you hear that noise?
‐ Do you think that's Bonnie?
‐ Let's go check it out.
Bonnie?
[gasps]
Ah! Who's there?
[ANXIOUS]
Prepare for trouble.
Such a familiar sound.
And make it double,
like, Pikachu's around.
JESSIE
'To protect the world
from fear and loathing.'
To unite all people
in creepy clothing.
To denounce the evils
of blood‐curdling screams.
To extend our reach
'til we burst at the seams.
[screaming]
‐ Scared Jessie!
‐ Jittery James!
Team Rocket blasts off
in a terror‐filled blitz.
I'd rather be fighting because
I'm scared out of my wits!
‐ This is the pits!
‐ Hm..
Looks like we've been
haunted by the Twerps.
Don't ever do that again.
So you guys
were behind all this.
‐ Behind what?
‐ All that weird stuff.
‐ You're dressed up like ghosts.
‐ We didn't do anything.
We borrowed these tablecloths
'cause we were cold
and soaked to the skin.
Okay, what did you do
with Bonnie?
‐ Huh? What's a Bonnie?
‐ Save it.
The first order of business
is getting out of this nuthouse.
[thud]
Somethin' just went
bump in the night.
Wonder what it was.
Looks like we've got visitors!
We're out of here!
Maybe it was Bonnie.
Then we'd better go
and check it out now.
BONNIE
'Sorry.' It fell over.
[PSYCHIC MOVE]
Wow. It was you.
[HAPPY]
[CURIOUS]
[SURPRISED]
[clinks]
That's a pretty pendant.
[EAGER]
Huh?
I've seen that painting before.
[EAGER]
[SAD]
It's the same pendant.
[SURPRISED]
But why?
[EAGER]
BONNIE
'I'm sorry, I don't..'
Huh?
'That voice.'
‐ What do you‐‐
‐ Hey, that's Bonnie.
Hm..
‐ What're you saying?
‐ 'Bonnie!'
Huh?
There you are. Hi.
‐ You okay?
‐ Thank goodness.
Look, Bonnie, you should
never ever run off like that.
You have no idea
how worried we've been.
I'm so sorry.
I was playing with that Pokémon.
‐ Huh?
‐ Hm?
Espurr. The Restraint Pokémon.
'Espurr's psychic energy
can travel hundreds of feet'
'blasting everything around it.'
CLEMONT
'I knew it!'
[SAD] / [EAGER]
It's trying to tell me something
but I can't understand it.
Hm..
We were too panicked to think
but now it all makes sense.
‐ Team Rocket?
‐ 'Let's put that aside.'
None of us are going to be
able to get out of here
unless we figure out
what Espurr wants from us.
The man makes sense.
Translate, please?
Basically, Espurr says
it wants to return the pendant
to the lady in the painting.
[SENTIMENTAL]
'It says she took
really good care of Espurr.'
For you.
Good, eh?
[laughing]
MEOWTH
She gave it some food.
Here.
[CURIOUS]
[HAPPY]
Do you like it?
MEOWTH
She gave it a ball.
[JOYFUL]
I used to play with my children
and grandchildren
like this too.
They used to play
together all the time.
[Lacy panting]
[WORRIED]
I'm sorry.
I'm alright.
My dear pendant.
It means so very much to me.
'It was a gift from my husband.'
[SURPRISED]
[AMAZED]
Do you like it?
In that case, you may hold
onto it for a little while.
Make sure you don't lose it,
alright?
[GRATEFUL]
Come visit again anytime.
[EAGER] / [WORRIED]
MEOWTH
Then one day..
It came to return
her beautiful pendant..
but she was gone.
I see.
So it's been waiting for her.
So it could return her pendant.
‐ 'All this time..'
‐ 'Yeah.'
She must have really
liked you a lot
if she let you wear that pretty
pendant of hers like she did.
[UPSET]
But now Espurr wants to find out
where the old lady went off to.
I'm afraid there's no way
any one of us would know.
[AGREEMENT]
Hey, Ash, we could
try to find out.
Yeah, we could.
That's a great idea.
I'm afraid we don't have time
for such silliness.
We know the quickest
way out of here.
And that's to catch Espurr.
‐ What are you doing?
‐ Pumpkaboo, let's go!
[APPEARING]
Okay, Inkay!
Now, use Leech Seed!
[LEECH SEED MOVE]
[SHOCKED]
[PANICKED] [PAINED]
Espurr.
Psybeam, Inkay,
and make it a good day.
[PSYBEAM MOVE]
[gasps]
[screaming]
‐ It's using Protect.
‐ Thanks a lot, Espurr.
[DETERMINED] / [PSYCHIC MOVE]
[gasps]
[PSYCHIC MOVE]
‐ What's going on?
‐ Ah‐ah.
[screaming]
Yes!
We finally got out of there.
True,
but where are we going next?
Guess?
ALL
'We're blasting off again!'
Espurr, that was great!
You really got us out of a jam.
I can't believe
how powerful you are.
[HAPPY]
[SAD]
Just leave finding the lady
who lived here to us.
I wonder if that woman lived
here all by herself?
Hm..
'Are you talking about
Grandma Lacy?'
BOTH
Huh?
‐ Uh, Grandma Lacy?
‐ That's her in that painting.
‐ She's my grandmother.
‐ Wow, she's your grandmother?
Does that mean
you own this big house?
That's right. I sure do.
My name is Elise.
So, who might you be?
I understand.
You knew my grandmother then.
I'm sorry we entered
your house without permission.
No problem. I'm glad you were
able to get out of the rain.
Grandma Lacy always used
to play games with me
when I would come here
for a visit too.
Just like she did with you.
[HAPPY]
Where's your Grandma Lacy now?
‐ I'm afraid she passed away.
‐ Huh?
[SAD]
CLEMONT
'I'm sorry.'
Huh!
[KIND]
Espurr wanted to return that
pendant to your grandma.
Thank you.
This was my grandmother's
favorite piece of jewelry.
This old house was scheduled
to be torn down soon.
'It's in pretty bad shape'
'so I came back to see what kind
of condition it was in.'
But, you know what?
After this,
after meeting all of you
I think I've changed my mind.
I'm going
to renovate this place.
[SURPRISED]
Now, don't worry.
'Grandma Lacy's portrait will
stay exactly where it is.'
And when it's all finished,
I'm going to move in.
And you know what, I'd be
thrilled if you'd come and play.
I know.
Do you wanna go to the cemetery
where Grandma Lacy is now?
You can tell her all about
the pendant and say goodbye.
[GRATEFUL]
I'm sure you'll take
good care of Espurr, right?
Of course, I think Espurr
and I will be good friends.
Take care, okay?
[FRIENDLY]
NARRATOR
Two hearts,
Espurr's and Elise's
connected by
Grandma Lacy's pendant.
Our heroes have witnessed yet
another bond between people
and Pokémon,
as their journey continues.
You know, I think it would be
a whole lot better
if you held on to that pendant,
instead of me.
I'm sure that's what Grandma
Lacy would want anyway.
[laughing]
It looks perfect.
[HAPPY]
ELISE
'What a pretty flower.'
[AGREEMENT]
[theme music]